Now let's make sure we can also send a post request,
so a request that adds data on the server. For that here, I'll add a new function, async function create
post or however you want to name it and there
let's say I expect to get a title and the content of the post and then here I'll have the post ID
which I'll generate with math random, just a random number
and now overall I have the post object here
you could say, where we have a title of title, where we have a body because our API here actually wants
a body field, it wants that we send it a title, a body field and a userId, so actually this here should
be userId, sorry,
so userId, then title body should be the content argument we're getting and then userId and make
sure you write it exactly as the API expects it,
so with a capital I, that can be equal to a hardcoded value or to the userId I set up there.
So this could now be the post data we send to the server,
the question just is, how do we now send this?
Well we can reuse our sendHttpRequest function which we created up here and now the URL is actually
the same as before, the server we're talking to supports this URL, you can see that in the examples
here as well,
this is a URL we can send a post request to but the method is a different one,
the method now is post. By the way, it does not matter if this is all uppercase or if you write it like
this, the convention is to use all uppercase but it's not required
technically. The URL is the same URL as before
and now we will actually need to enhance this method because now, we need to be able to also add a body
to the request . For a get request,
you don't need that you just want to get data so you don't append any extra data to the outgoing request,
for a post request where you want to create data on the server, you need to add the data you want to
create to the outgoing request and to do that, we need to tweak our function, the sendHttpRequest
function to also expect a data argument or to support it at least. By default this can be null or it
actually is undefined by default anyways if we don't pass it so we don't need to set this up and now
we can append this to the outgoing request. To append data to the outgoing request, you go to the send
method and pass your data to send, however not just like this but it needs to be JSON data, so we should
call JSON.stringify and pass data to JSON.stringify and then pass the result of this stringify
call to send, so this will now add this extra data here. With that, we can call create post here
after fetching the posts and create a dummy post with a dummy post as content maybe and just dummy as
a title and now we just have to make sure that in create post, we use that post object which we created
and add that to the request we're sending.
So here as the third argument which we just added to the sendHttpRequest method, we can add post and
inside of the sendHttpRequest method, this will be converted to JSON and attached to the outgoing request.
With that if we save that and we reload our page here, we don't get an error,
let's check the network tab and there we see this extra request down there. Now the status codes here
by the way signal whether it worked or not,
200ish status codes mean that
the request succeded, 201 means that it succeeded and a resource was created on the server and
therefore this is looking good, though keep in mind no actual resources are getting created here, we're
talking to a dummy API which just fakes that it does something. Nonetheless if we inspect this, we see
a response,
this could be an ID which the server automatically generated for our send data and on the headers
tab, we see our URL, our HTTP method and if we scroll to the very bottom, we see the request payload
and that's the data which was appended and here we see that indeed is the data we generated.
So this is how we can send a request with JSON data to an API,
it's as easy as that.
Now let's tweak our little project here a little bit and let's make sure we actually send the data which
the user entered and we also only send it when we click add or we fetch it when we click fetch.